readme.md, before:

# pipe-iterators

Functions for iterating over object mode streams.

# API

The API is analoguous to the native `Array.*` iteration API (`forEach`, `map`, `filter`). All the functions return object mode streams.

- `forEach(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream and passes through every element. The return value from the callback is ignored.
- `map(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream. The output value from the callback is written to the stream.
- `filter(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream. If the return value from the callback function is `false`, then the current element is filtered (not written to the next stream). If the return value is `true`, the element is written to the next stream.
- `mapKey(key, function(value) {})`: takes `obj[key]`, and calls the function with this value. The return value from the function replaces the old value.
- `mapKey(hash)`: you can also specify a `key => fn` hash

Note that the callbacks only receive one argument - the value from the stream - which means that you can probably just write `.map(someLibFn)` directly without worrying about `someLibFn` getting extra arguments.

- `fork(stream1, stream2, ...)`: returns a duplex stream. The stream is piped into the streams passed as arguments. Every forked stream receives a clone of the original input object. Cloning prevents annoying issues that might occur when one fork stream modifies an object that is shared among multiple forked streams.
- `fork([stream1, stream2, ...])`: you can also pass an array
- `clone()`: returns a stream that clones each of the input values before writing them forward.
- `.pipeFirst(stream1, stream2, ...)`: Like `a.pipe(b).pipe(c)`, but returns the first stream (`a`) rather than the last stream (`c`).
- `.pipeFirst([stream1, stream2, ...])`: you can also pass an array.

When calling `fork`, keep in mind that `.pipe()` returns the last stream's object, so you probably want to use `.pipeFirst(stream1, stream2, ...)`, since `.fork(a.pipe(b).pipe(c))` would be equivalent to `.fork(c)` and not `.fork(a)` because of how `.pipe` works.

## Examples

Log every item:

```js
.pipe(forEach(function(obj) { console.log(obj); }))
```

Set defaults:
    
```js
.pipe(map(function(obj) { return _.extend(obj, source); }));
```

Convert to string:

```js
.pipe(map(function(chunk) { return chunk.toString()); }));    
```

Append or prepend a value:

```js
.pipe(map(function(chunk) { return chunk + '!!' }))
```

Replace the value in the `path` key:

```js
.pipe(mapKey('path', function(p) { return p.replace(assetPath, outPath); }))
```

## What about asynchronous iteration?

Meh, `through2` streams already make writing async iteration quite easy.

Commit message:

Add reduce, add fromArray, add toArray

readme.md, after:

# pipe-iterators

Functions for iterating over object mode streams.

# API

The API is analoguous to the native `Array.*` iteration API (`forEach`, `map`, `filter`). All the functions return object mode streams.

- `forEach(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream and passes through every element. The return value from the callback is ignored.
- `map(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream. The return value from the callback is written to the stream.
- `filter(function(obj) {})`: returns a stream that iterates over every element in the stream. If the return value from the callback function is `false`, then the current element is filtered (not written to the next stream). If the return value is `true`, the element is written to the next stream.
- `mapKey(key, function(value) {})`: takes `obj[key]`, and calls the function with this value. The return value from the function replaces the old value of `obj[key]`.
- `mapKey(hash)`: you can also specify a `key => fn` hash
- `reduce(function(prev, obj){}, initial)`: returns a stream that accumulates all of the input, applying the given callback on each entry and storing the return value from the callback as the new value of the accumulator. When the input stream ends, emits the value built up in the accumulator.

Note that the forEach/map/filter callbacks only receive one argument - the value from the stream - which means that you can probably just write `.map(someLibFn)` directly without worrying about `someLibFn` getting extra arguments.

- `fork(stream1, stream2, ...)`: returns a duplex stream. The stream is piped into the streams passed as arguments. Every forked stream receives a clone of the original input object. Cloning prevents annoying issues that might occur when one fork stream modifies an object that is shared among multiple forked streams.
- `fork([stream1, stream2, ...])`: you can also pass an array
- `fromArray(arr)`: constructs a readable stream from an array. The stream will emit one item for each item in the array, and then emit end.
- `toArray(function(err, arr) {})`: constructs a duplex stream which reads in a set of values, places them in a single array and then finally calls the given function, passing in the `err` (any stream errors) and `arr` (containing all the values in a single array). Since this is a duplex stream you can pipe from it as well, and it will write the array it receives after it receives the end event.
- `.through`: exposes the [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2) instance used, may be useful if you are using through2 anyway.
- `clone()`: returns a stream that clones each of the input values before writing them forward.
- `.pipeFirst(stream1, stream2, ...)`: Like `a.pipe(b).pipe(c)`, but returns the first stream (`a`) rather than the last stream (`c`).
- `.pipeFirst([stream1, stream2, ...])`: you can also pass an array.

When calling `fork`, keep in mind that `.pipe()` returns the last stream's object, so you probably want to use `.pipeFirst(stream1, stream2, ...)`, since `.fork(a.pipe(b).pipe(c))` would be equivalent to `.fork(c)` and not `.fork(a)` because of how `.pipe` works.

## Examples

Log every item:

```js
.pipe(forEach(function(obj) { console.log(obj); }))
```

Set defaults:
    
```js
.pipe(map(function(obj) { return _.defaults(obj, source); }));
```

Convert to string:

```js
.pipe(map(function(chunk) { return chunk.toString()); }));    
```

Append or prepend a value:

```js
.pipe(map(function(chunk) { return chunk + '!!' }))
```

Join chunks:

```js
.pipe(reduce(function(prev, chunk) { return prev + '|' + chunk; }), '');
```

Replace the value in the `path` key:

```js
.pipe(mapKey('path', function(p) { return p.replace(assetPath, outPath); }))
```

## What about asynchronous iteration?

Meh, `through2` streams already make writing async iteration quite easy. 

## What about splitting strings?

Best handled by something that can do that in an efficient manner, such as [binary-split](https://github.com/maxogden/binary-split).

## Related

- [Raynos/duplexer](https://github.com/Raynos/duplexer)
- [dominictarr/event-stream](https://github.com/dominictarr/event-stream)
- [Medium/sculpt](https://github.com/Medium/sculpt)
